# kurlisten_masterarbeit
This repository contains the files and scripts used for a master's thesis in Digital Humanities at the University of Vienna.

## Project structure
```php
kurlisten_masterarbeit/
│
├── scripts/
│   ├── excel_to_json.py
│   ├── heatmap.py
│   ├── nobles_extract.r
│   ├── scrape_country.py
│   ├── scrape_QID.py
│   ├── script_thesis.r
│   └── unique_coordinates.py
│
├── cache/
│
├── data/
│   ├── addresses_clean.xlsx
│   ├── addresses_with_coords.xlsx
│   ├── baden_1870.png
│   ├── comparison_data.xlsx
│   ├── kurfrequenz_vergleich.xlsx
│   ├── nobles_with_ranks.xlsx
│   ├── nobles_without_ranks.xlsx
│   ├── ortsnamen.xlsx
│   ├── ref_points.xlsx
│   ├── spadata.xlsx
│   └── towns.xlsx
│
├── .gitignore
└── README.md
```

## Data source
The data for this thesis has been extracted from the *Kurlisten* (spa guest lists) from Baden bei Wien, printed between 1850–1859. Transkribus was the OCR tool used in this step.
For data cleaning, analysis, visualisation, various scripts were generated by LLMs, mainly ChatGPT-4.
Once online, the thesis will be linked here, so that the methodology can be followed if so wished.

As part of the thesis, a website has been created, showing European spa towns. The code for the website is in another [repository](https://github.com/icrimedkarub/aquae_europae). The resulting website has been [deployed](https://icrimedkarub.github.io/aquae_europae) via GitHub Pages.
The data used for the website has been originally created by The European Spa project. The `towns.xlsx` is based on this data. `excel_to_json.py` is used to transform this file into the format used on the website.

## Data workflow
The tables and plots shown in the thesis can be recreated by downloading or forking this repository, and running the scripts. Scripts assume the repository structure is preserved as paths are resolved relative to the project root.

## Author
Burak Demirci (icrimedkarub)

Contact: aquae[dot]europae[at]gmail[dot]com

## License

This project is intended for scientific and educational use.